Documentation for Cypher SEARCH clause (#1459)
neo4j/docs-cypher: modules/ROOT/pages/indexes/semantic-indexes/vector-indexes.adoc

[[query-vector-index]]
== Query vector indexes
As of Neo4j 2026.01, the preferred way of querying vector indexes is by using the Cypher xref::clauses/search.adoc[SEARCH] clause.
A less powerful alternative, which also works for earlier Neo4j versions, is using the procedures link:https://neo4j.com/docs/operations-manual/current/procedures/#procedure_db_index_vector_queryNodes[db.index.vector.queryNodes] and link:https://neo4j.com/docs/operations-manual/current/procedures/#procedure_db_index_vector_queryRelationships[db.index.vector.queryRelationships].

[NOTE]
An index cannot be used while its `state` is `POPULATING`, which occurs immediately after it is created.
To check the `state` of a vector index -- whether it is `ONLINE` (usable) or `POPULATING` (still being built; the `populationPercent` column shows the progress of the index creation) -- run the following command: `SHOW VECTOR INDEXES`.

> === Querying a node vector index using the SEARCH clause

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[role=label--preview]
=== Querying a node vector index using the SEARCH clause
```

The `SEARCH` clause returns the neighborhood of nodes, optionally with their respective similarity scores, ordered by those scores.
The scores are bounded between `0.0` and `1.0`, where the closer to `1.0` the score is, the more similar the indexed vector is to the query vector.

> .Find the 5 movies with the most similar plot to The Godfather

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Find the five movies with the most similar plot to The Godfather
```

| "Godfather: Part II, The"  | "The early life and career of Vito Corleone in 1920s New York is portrayed while his son, Michael, expands and tightens his grip on his crime syndicate stretching from Lake Tahoe, Nevada to pre-revolution 1958 Cuba." | 0.9547788500785828 |
| "Goodfellas"               | "Henry Hill and his friends work their way up through the mob hierarchy."                                                                                                                                                | 0.9300689697265625 |
| "Scarface"                 | "An ambitious and near insanely violent gangster climbs the ladder of success in the mob, but his weaknesses prove to be his downfall."                                                                                  | 0.9367183446884155 |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
----

> Note that all movies returned have a plot centred around criminal family organizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All movies returned have a plot centered around criminal family organizations.
```

> The `score` results are  returned in _descending order_, where the best matching result entry is put first (in this case, `The Godfather` has a similarity score of `1.0`, which is to be expected as the index was queried with this specific property).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `score` results are  returned in _descending order_, where the best matching result entry is put first.
`The Godfather` has a similarity score of `1.0` because the index was queried with this specific property.
```

> If the query vector itself is not wanted, adding the predicate `WHERE score < 1` removes identical vectors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To exclude the query vector, add the predicate `WHERE score < 1`.
```

[[query-vector-index]]
== Query vector indexes
As of Neo4j 2026.01, the preferred way of querying vector indexes is by using the Cypher xref::clauses/search.adoc[SEARCH] clause.
A less powerful alternative, which also works for earlier Neo4j versions, is using the procedures link:https://neo4j.com/docs/operations-manual/current/procedures/#procedure_db_index_vector_queryNodes[db.index.vector.queryNodes] and link:https://neo4j.com/docs/operations-manual/current/procedures/#procedure_db_index_vector_queryRelationships[db.index.vector.queryRelationships].

[NOTE]
An index cannot be used while its `state` is `POPULATING`, which occurs immediately after it is created.
To check the `state` of a vector index -- whether it is `ONLINE` (usable) or `POPULATING` (still being built; the `populationPercent` column shows the progress of the index creation) -- run the following command: `SHOW VECTOR INDEXES`.

=== Querying a node vector index using the SEARCH clause

The `SEARCH` clause returns the neighborhood of nodes, optionally with their respective similarity scores, ordered by those scores.

> The scores are bounded between `0` and `1`, where the closer to `1` the score is, the more similar the indexed vector is to the query vector.

Reviewer 2: Shall we say between `0.0` and `1.0` as they are floats not ints?

* The `indexName` refers to the unique name of the vector index to query.
* The `numberOfNearestNeighbours` refers to the number of nearest neighbors to return.

> * The `query` refers to the `LIST<INTEGER | FLOAT>` or, as of Neo4j 2025.10, additionally `VECTOR` which neighborhood should be searched.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `query` refers to the `LIST<INTEGER | FLOAT>` or, as of Neo4j 2025.10, additionally the `VECTOR` of which the neighborhood should be searched.
```
